has Google finally met its
[Laughter]
[Music]
maker hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over
at breaking
bb.com in this episode we're going to
dive into exactly what search GPT is
about how it works how it Stacks up
compared to Google search my thoughts on
who it's for and also ideas on how you
can start ranking your company your
business your SAS in search GPT by open
AI so with that let's dive in and get
stuck in straight
away you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or authors on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking B2B
docomo book a call with
me first and foremost when was it
released well it's only just dropped as
of October 31st so a couple days before
recording this episode open AI dropped
it they've essentially integrated search
facilities within chat GPT itself which
we're about to dive into and a couple
things you should know it's as of now
it's only available as far as I know to
folks with either the beta access or you
can do what I did and pay 20 bucks a
month so not a ton sign up for the bonus
the pro version of chat GPT and then
you're going to get access another note
to realize is that this is part of open
ai's AI powered search engine it
utilizes Microsoft Bing search
technology and the collab between
Microsoft and openi a while back is
weaved into the infrastructure so that's
quoting directly from The Verge so let's
take a look at the tool if you're
watching as opposed to listening I'm
going to talk it through either way so
if I head straight into chat gp.com and
a reminder I've paid 20 bucks a month to
access the web version so what can help
with click on search the web and if we
start with perhaps a simple tool simple
search just to show the difference here
between a traditional Google search so
something super simple what is search
GPT and straight away we given an answer
almost instantly it's telling us pretty
much what I've just recapped there
search gbt it's Prototype at this stage
it was originally launched in July 2024
but we've now covered that that's only
just dropped end of October
and it's talking about how it works but
what you'll see straight away is
compared to traditional Google organic
search there is no ads at the top and
there's no ads at the bottom there's no
ads at all our openai going to weave in
ads later along to search gbt possibly
who am I to say if they want to make
money out of it perhaps they will the
other thing like I said it's pulled up
information straight away and also
instead of the traditional Blue Links
like you would get on a Google search if
I do something similar if I search on
Google what is
search
GPT you've got the Blue Links where we
have to click through into a page a
landing page or article to troll through
to get the information so straight away
You're presented with the info and
instead of having kind of direct Blue
Links to click through it CES who's
given the piece of information so for
example in the first paragraph It's got
little almost hidden linked open AI so
it's I've got it set to to dark mode on
viewing this and you'll see this when
it's citing a source or quoting a source
it's all in dark open AI here and at the
bottom of the information of the search
you've got the sources you can click
into opens a tab on the right hand side
and then you can click through into all
the links that is pulled up so straight
away we can see the search varies a fair
bit in terms of no ads almost instant
results and no traditional Blue Link to
click into pages but you can site the
sources but they're a bit harder to
navigate so it's almost as if it wants
you search gbt wants to keep you within
the user interface itself and not
necessarily have you clicking through to
Pages articles or other sources whereas
that's traditionally been Google's model
so that's a good starting point so a few
few facts a few fairly interesting
points built by open AI launched 31st of
October 20 bucks a month as we've said
so getting direct answers from realtime
data as well as AI responses no ads no
Blue Links sources cited are much
smaller and a bit more hidden as we've
seen and as you can see you can easily
search and then add followup prompt so
it's more of a conversation tool than it
is a kind of traditional search engine
per Google so let's as mostly B2B folks
tend to tune in to these episodes and
videos let let's perhaps tee up some
traditional kind of what we call bottom
of funnel B2B searches that someone a
prospect might search for we'll compare
it to Google we'll compare it to search
GPT when they're perhaps in Market
directly looking for a service an offer
or a vendor so let's start with
something I often tee up so in this case
best
proposal
software so in this case on search gbt
I'm searching best proposal software
it's it's firing up the answ straight
away and we're presented with a bunch of
The Usual
Suspects so it's got selecting the right
proposal software can significantly
enhance your business efficiency
creating managing and tracking proposals
here's a list of the top ones to
consider we got Panda do proposify bet
proposals Usual Suspects and then we can
click through it looks like we've got a
little write up on each and then you can
click through to view the full version
and then at the bottom again you've got
the sources
that we can click to open and when you
click sources at the bottom it opens up
a right hand panel where you can click
into all the links that it's actually
citing these listings from and if we do
similar I do the same search on
Google to compare best proposal
software again we've got the sponsored
ads of course chat search gbt gets rid
of
that and then we've got traditional Blue
Links so in this case first organic
search is a listicle a comparison of the
top 10 so let's go for a different stage
in the funnel this time this one I found
quite interesting when I was looking
earlier so I'm going to go for something
quite crisp and quite specific using the
jobto be done framework how to build a
killer CES demo for uh
CMO make sure that's on the
search searching the web so how to build
a killer cell sales demo for a CMO and
then straight away I've got quite a
detailed breakdown I won't read the full
thing but it says creating an impactful
sales demo tailored for a chief
marketing officer requires a strategic
approach so it's broken down into phases
conduct thorough research customized
demo highlight key features and benefits
engage with interactive elements and
it's worth noting for those listening in
each one of these points has got bullet
points within it to break it down what's
involved keep the demo concise and focus
follow up with personalized
coms and then by impl these strategies
you can create a sales demo that
effectively resonates with a CMO
addressing their needs and brings value
and then right at the bottom as I said
you've got the sources so no need to
click through the Blue Links to get the
info straight away you're getting a
detailed summary to give you some kind
of action items for creating that killer
sales demo specifically for a CMO and
again yeah you can site the sources if
you want to dip into that let's try how
that compares to a Google search so
let's Google how to build a killer
sales demo for a
CMO so we don't have an AI overviews
answer for this in Google's
case we do have a featured snippet from
HubSpot which has got again that's not
specifically for CMO so the featured
snippet that's the featured organic
result from HubSpot it's not tailored to
a CMO it's just the ultimate it's just
quoting something from the ultimate
guide for sales demos so on that
specific search interestingly search gbt
is probably giving us a better
experience at the top of the funnel so
it's not like we're ready to buy
something when we're searching how to
build a killer sales demo for a CMO but
it's given us a good indepth idea with
something useful from search gbt so I
would say that search GPT probably wins
that
one let's move out the B2B space for a
second and let's try something more
localized so if I
search just a general local search in
this case treat
surgeons near me so let's pretend I want
to
use search
gbt my Tre is just falling down on my
garden and I want to see if there's
someone that can help me out tree
surgeons near me search GPT if you're
seeking professional tree surgeons in
YoVille yep it's got my location right
here some reputable local services to
consider and then it's got some YoVille
stre surgeons with the info and their
number and on the right hand side it's
got the cited sources for each and I can
click into it looks like interestingly
each one of these Blue Links that it's
actually now given Blue Links in search
upbt is linking out to Google
Maps which is interesting they've done
that so that in this result for local
tree surgeons local businesses that
looks like they're pulling data from
Google Maps which is quite
interesting so yeah it's basically got a
full list of those it's got I don't know
one two three 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 about 12
listings and I can open up the source is
where it's pulled them and it looks like
it's pulled them from Checker trade some
websites itself and of course Google
listing so it's pulling info from Google
Google local Google my business for some
of these which is quite interesting in
itself let's go back to a B2B
search let's try again quite a common
one in the SAS World in B2B SAS B2B
software B2B technology is comparing
vendors so if folks are on the fence
about choosing when when they get to
valuation stage they choose three or
four vendors usually make a short list
before they decide what software to
compare maybe we'll search something
like let's go for
cly calendly
Al I can spell cany
Alternatives there we
go so for those who haven't heard of
calendar it's a calendar scheduling tool
typically that you'll use to allow folks
to easily book a time with your sales
team on your website and yeah it's a
similar kind of search to one we did
before if you're exploring alternatives
for canly here's some multiple
Alternatives and it's got a list of
things like click up doodle you can book
me and I suppose this is kind of useful
then let got the sources cited whereas
if we did something similar on
Google let's do that on Google calendly
alternatives
doesn't look like we get any AI overview
result on Google again we get the
sponsored ads and the first organic
listing is a actually a listicle an
article page where you can get the
ultimate list so is search GPT more
helpful on this not necessarily I think
what I can see right now certainly from
a a B2B perspective is if you want quick
in-depth tactical responses for specific
queries then I think search GPT does a
really nice job of that
so like I did earlier how to do
something so maybe we can do another one
how to build a case for SEO to present
to your
marketing team so I've just searched on
search gbt something similar how to
build a case for SEO to present to your
marketing team and again it's giving me
how many six six points with sub bullet
points for each align SEO business
objectives analyze competitive landscape
present data driven insights outline
resource requirements address potential
challenges highlight long-term benefits
and then follow this approach and you
can look to get an Roi for SEO to
present to your marketing team and then
again it's got the
sources there so you can actually click
through to the links if you wish so I
think where search gbt is excelling for
me is when you want quite specific
queries where you don't necessarily want
to mess around clicking through to Pages
like you would traditionally with Google
you just want to get quite a quick
answer and then it's quite
conversational so if you wanted to
say if you wanted to then add something
to that query to maybe make it a bit
more longer tail or get a bit more
info um what if I want to present this
to my
cro just layering on that yeah so
straight away which isn't really
something you can do with Google search
so in this case I've carried on that
question about making a business case
for SEO my marketing team and I've
layered the next question is what if I
want to present this to my cro my chief
Revenue officer and then again it's giv
me 1 2 3 four five five
points to be fair they look very similar
to the first set so I'm not going to
give search gbt too much in that case
but certainly on some of these queries
with quick responses it's pretty cool so
let's get back to why you should use it
so why should you use it well ramp up
traffic ramp up visit ability rant up
brand ramp up mind share it's another
platform so it's as well as Google
search as well as Bing as well as duck
Dogo any other platform you want to
think about for search it's a new way to
get potential traffic signups leads
sales calls mind share brand reputation
to website you can get an early it's
literally only just gone live so it's a
new way in to start ramping up traffic
brand and mind share and of course the
chances are the users us using search
gbt is only going to increase over
time next Point super relevant I think
it's far too easy a ton of people are
saying that is Google dead is SEO
traditionally for Google search dead of
course it's not I mean right now chat
gbt is getting over 10 million queries
per day per The Verge but compare that
to Google 8.5 billion 8.5 billion
searches per day that's from cited from
demand Sage so far far too early to say
Google's dead I think
yeah chat GPT certainly search GPT
rather certainly has its use cases as
we've seen but I think people are so
stuck in their ways for Google certainly
for kind of those buying queries
especially in the B2B space when
someone's ready to look for a vendor
they're so used to just searching on
Google so I think that's something to
think and also it's more difficult for
folks to click through to Links or
citations um within search GPT so that's
something Direct traffic might not be as
high from search gbt because it looks
like it's encouraging folks not to click
through but brand recognition brand
recall and then things like dark social
where folks discuss Brands within slack
communities Discord or whatever Channel
you use to discuss your xac team that
can that could be impacted quite a lot I
think so the juicy one how can you
actually rank I've rambled on a lot
about what's involved how it compares to
Google so here's a few things that I've
grabbed from watching videos reading a
ton of Articles speaking to other folks
in SEO and B2B marketing here's a few
things that seem to stand out and a lot
of these are to be fair quite similar to
SEO with a few nuances so making sure
your pages are clearly
structured so what I mean by that is
clearly outlining how the pages are
formatted so they're super easy for
folks to read in terms of skimmable
blogs or skimmable landing pages and how
the headings and such are formatted
engaging content so what do I mean by
that well I mean things like weaving in
embedded videos YouTube videos maybe
infographics maybe walkthroughs
screenshots of your product maybe live
demos if you're in SAS customer quotes
testimonials social proof trust signals
all that good stuff that can be engaging
in content Rich making sure your content
for your learning page your article is
fresh it's relevant so think of the
classic Google framework eat exper show
make sure your pages show experience
expertise Authority and Trust so make
sure if you're writing on a topic or an
article whatever it may be that
whoever's building out content is a
subject matter expert and you're
leveraging points that your dream
clients actually care about so whether
you're talking about problems impacts of
problems how your offer is the
painkiller the solution to those
problems and layering in proof points
statistics whatever can back those
claims up writing in a conversational
manner is important so AI seems to like
the fact if you write in a
conversational format as search gbt is
more conversational you can do a query
then you can layer it you can do quite
longtail searches that are more in depth
or instant responses compared to Google
that seems to work well and with that
relevant is going after crisp and
specific longtail keywords so rather
than a simple search like proposal
software or what is the best proposal
software and well and why or how can I
go about finding the best proposal
software for my business or I'm
struggling to move sales data from
Google Suite to wherever you're trying
to move it to another tool so thinking
about those longtail specific crisp
keywords that your prospects your sales
your sales customers maybe your customer
success uh coming up and getting
stumbling blocks on time to time similar
Point addressing common queries
questions addressing common objections I
love to mine sales calls gong calls
chorus calls fathom calls all those cool
recording softwares as well as Intel I
love getting together with my sales team
when I work with clients understanding
what their sales team are bringing up
what the common questions they're
getting on specific topics that you're
writing about for your pages time and
time again so we can leverage those with
content with AQ sections and more or
address them in your YouTube videos that
you're embedding on pages as well as
getting with your customer success team
and then yeah basic technical SEO stuff
so only one H1 that's relevant to your
target longtail keyword making sure your
url has the main keyword in making sure
the website loads nice and quick on
mobile tablet and PC it has a good
mobile view as well as tablet and PC
making sure that the structure of the
page as well format H1 H2S h3s it's easy
to consume bullet points broken up
leveraging rich media like we talked
about and other important other
interesting things are it seems like
from what I've read back links more
important to go after quality ones
rather than volume which pretty similar
to SEO making sure they're Niche
relevant but also brand mentions
apparently are quite good so rather than
just a I don't know press release or an
article or a company's linking back to
you but actually mentioning your brand
as well seems to be valuable and yeah
strengthening trust signals a bit like
what Google looks for when it ranks pay
those trust signals where their links
where their brand mentions and so on in
Niche relevant sites to actually what
you're serving so with that said who do
I think it's going to impact the most I
think folks that companies that are
going to get the most impacted are the
ones that have tech savvy prospects the
ones that go after clients that are bit
more technical traditional users I think
are just going to go to Google and
search their query for now whe that's on
the mobile their desktop whe they're
searching how to whether they're
searching for a brand whether they're
searching for a piece of software or
comparing vendors or searching to fix a
problem I think they're going to stick
to Google I think more techsavvy folks
especially folks that go after people in
the it
space maybe a lot of SAS brands that go
after B2B marketers and similar what it
folks are gonna going to need to
leverage this especially sooner rather
than later because I think these people
are going to get frustrated with
traditional Google results and like we
saw earlier in this episode those more
technical there's more in depth there's
more Quest questions you can get an
instant answer and I think if you can
start leveraging and start looking to
rank on search up then that's going to
be a bit of an unfair Advantage if
you've got more of a technical more of a
techsavvy audience I think that's worth
knowing final thoughts on the topic well
like I talked about earlier chat GPT
roughly 10 million plus users a day or
searches per day rather per The Verge
Google 8.5 billion searches per day per
demand surge Google's far from dead
still a super good way to capture demand
for folks needing your offer now
comparing other vendors for a problem
you fix a great way if you build out a
solid SEO strategy to ramp leads sales
calls signups or demos but search GPT is
definitely something that if you've got
resource that you want to start tapping
into and thinking about as you build out
your wider search engine strategy if you
found this episode useful plenty more on
the breaking B2B podcast just head over
to breaking
bb.com and if you perhaps tuned in to
this for for the last 20 minutes or so
and you're maybe feeling a little bit
tired a little bit frustrated that every
time your dream clients are searching in
this case probably mostly right now on
Google for your offer maybe searching
for problems you fix or comparing you to
other vendors you're tired of seeing
competitors above you in organic search
results stealing traffic stealing leads
stealing mind share stealing inbound
opportunity then we might be able to fix
that for your B2B or your SAS OR tech
company compy at breaking bb.com head
head over to Breaking bb.com to book
yourself a cool happy to chat through
and see if we can help or just check out
the podcast or check out the newsletter
for a bunch of actual tips on SEO and
B2B marketing and what actually works
today and with that I shall catch you on
the next one appreciate you tuning in
cheers
[Music]